All right. If you could take a seat for
the second half of the day.
And now we're going to continue with the
interactive segment of DPI Day.
I hope you all had a great time during the
DPI breakout sessions.
I hear that there were some problems with
microphones here and there.
Our sincere apologies for that.
We hope that this didn't disturb your
co-creation too much.
And yeah, we're going to have a share-out
session.
But before we are starting withthe
share-out session,we have a message from
the International Telecommunications Union
and from its Deputy Secretary General
Thomas Lamanascos.
It is my privilege to join you for the UN
Open Source Week
and explore how open technologies can
power digital public infrastructure or DPI.
From interoperable identity systems to
secure online payments,
DPI allows governments to deliver services
efficiently,
and will trust and empower communities at
scale.
ITU, as the UN Agency for Digital
Technologies,
supports countries with technical guidance,
capacity development and partnerships
to establish future-proof DPI.
Open Source has become a vital enabler of
DPI
from core registries to penal platforms
and data exchange layers that power
digital government services.
The Open Source ecosystem enabler a joint
ITU UNDP initiative,
generously funded by the European Commission,
helps governments devise strategies,
build institutional capacity and
coordinate deployments
through Open Source Program offices or
OSPOs.
Kenya recently launched its national OSPO,
while another is under preparation during
that in Tobago.
Our Open World Initiative, with the Linux
Foundation,
the government of Switzerland, another
public and private partners,
seeks open source implementation of
standards for digital wallets.
Goofstack, set in motion by ITU, Estonia,
Germany
and the Digital Impact Alliance in 2020,
promotes open source of drive DPI with
stacked blueprints
enabling modernization of public services
across the world.
And we are advancing climate solutions
throughopen data as
part of green visual action.
An initiative, where among our partners we
can't key leaders in Open Technologies,
such as OpenUK. These are prime examples
of the shift from policy to practice,
making Open Source a daily tool for
inclusive innovation.
We are committed, particularly since ITU
T-Resolution 90 in 2016
to integrating open source approaches
intoour standards,development and
implementation.
With this approach, Open Technologies can
help us make artificial intelligence
a true common good, accessible,
trustworthy and aligned with public values.
We are promoting the Open Source approach
to AI for good,
our initiative with 50+ partners across
the UN system
to showcase the AI innovation for a better
future.
Our next AI for good summit features
open-source AI solutions
for health from Intern 8 and more,
and courage you to all join us in Geneva
Online between 8th and 11th July.
Our global AI problem-solving competitions
running since 2020
produce open source breakthroughs to
optimize network management,
reduce emissions and more.
Our global initiative on AI for health
with WHO and YPO
will zone a five-year focus group shaping
safe,effective and
ethical AI use in health care.
That work included an open-code initiative
showcasing how open source platforms
can drive cross-border innovation and
standards
to advance AI-powered health care especially
across low- and middle-income countries.
Colleagues, we practice what we preach
within the UN system as well.
ITU led the creation of the UN Common
Policy Framework on Open Source,
released last November by a community of
practice for UN 2.0.
This framework, combined with the recently
published UN open-source principles,
gives us a system-wide reference policy to
harmonize our open-source tools and
practices.
It offers guidance on licensing,
governance, procurement, capacity building
and community engagement to enable
open-source in our work for the world.
As part of ITU's own digital monetization
efforts too,
we're adopting open-source technologies
that are cost-effective,
widely supported and aligned with
international best practices.
Open-source platforms support ITU's latest
radio regulations navigation tool
soon to be available forsale to our member
states and
ITU arm member companies' organizations.
And our space sustainability gateway
the free ITU portal dedicated to
responsible use of outer space
and associated orbital and spectrum
resources.
Meanwhile, tools like World Press, Telvand
CAS and React
for our increasingly interactive web
pages,a Pasha solar for
high-power document searches
and others for our accessible library
interface and enhance our ability
to deliver faster, more flexible and more
user-friendly digital services.
At the same time,these open platforms
strengthen our transparency and
long-term sustainability.
Friends,DPI has become firmly embedded as
a foundational element of sustainable
development.
So the Africa G20 presidency, for example,
building on the momentum
of the Indian and Brazilian G20 presences
has put DPI implementation
including measurement and governance at
the center of digital transformation.
Together withthe NDP
we are knowledge partners to the G20
digital economy working group.
The open-source approach encourages
transparency, propels innovation,
and encourages flexibility and
collaboration.
Ultimately, it means controlling your own
digital destiny.
That's because open-source models reduce
dependence on proprietary solutions,
allowing more room to invest in homegrown
talent, adapt tech for local needs,
and engage with global knowledge-sharing
communities.
Openness and cooperation are key for
shared digital progress.
Let's share open-source experiences,
strengthen the platform,
and through that, help bring the global
digital compact to life.
Thank you.
All right
so the next 45 minutes are dedicated to
sharing what was discussed in the breakout
sessions.
In the breakout sessions, you all
developed calls to actions, I understand,
and we will bring these calls to actions
to the global DPI summit in November.
Who here has participated in a breakout
session? Quick show of hands.
All right, that's many. Did some go to
more than one?
All right, great enthusiasm.
So, I actually think that's great.
All right, I'm handing over to Aura from
Co-develop to moderate the share-art session.
Thank you, Maurits. Good afternoon,
everyone.
I'm very honored and excited to moderating
this session.
I'm from Co-develop. I don't know how many
of you know this,
but we are behind the scenes of the global
DPI summit.
So, I'll encourage you to apply and attend
that event.
In case you don't know, we have a website,
globaldpi-summit.org.
So,since this session will follow up andwe're
going to have like another session at
thatevent
I think it's important that you might attend,
and I really encourage you to be there.
So, we're going to present the summary for
each breakout session.
I'm going to call up one organizer and one
participant for each session,
so they can kind of like give us a brief
summary of the discussion
and also to highlight the call to action.
What are like the commitments that you
discussed together in that session?
So, I'm going to start with the DPI
safeguards group.
Is there anyone here? Pathways to adoption
and inclusion.
Okay. Is it working? Yeah. Okay. Good.
Thank you, Maurits.
So, the session was part of the Universal
DPI safeguards initiative.
Thankfully, we have two banners here to
introduce that.
And we had two sessions within the same
safeguards session.
And just to give you a quick intro,the DPI
safeguards initiative is about
building safeguards in countries
to ensure that DPI is built towards
inclusive and safe public outcomes.
And in this session,firstly
we had a presentation on what the DPI
safeguards working group has done sofar
as part of this year's work.
And they have been working on two particular
tools on developing the assessment
and the measurement framework that can
support the existing DPI safeguards framework
so that countries can adopt and implement
the principles and processes
that are there in the framework much more
easily.
And so they presented the tool that they
have developed
and where they are currently in terms of
their work in progress.
And the objective of the session was to
gather feedback on where they are currently
and to take the feedback and
move forward in terms of refinement of the
framework itself.
So that was objective.
And one of the participants will later
share about the outcomes from the session.
And secondly, we had another session
within the same session is that,
which we focused on the practical part of
the safeguards,where we had a panel with
two country representatives
from Dominican Republic and South Africa,
where they shared their journey
of how they have gone about implementing
safeguards in their own country context.
And the objective of that
was to give a sense of what it means to
implement safeguards in countries
when there's a lot of DPI workers happening,
how do you do safeguards parallely
and as well as embedded into the existing
DPI work? Thank you.
Excellent. Who's the participant from that
session?
Over to you, Ed.
Yeah.
So during the first part of the session,
we had some good feedback and interaction
from audience in terms of the call to
action and next steps around the pathways
and compliance portion of the safeguards
working group.
It centers around on those pathways,getting
feedback on additional pathways that
could be added
how we could make these pathways more
simple andclear forthose WHO
are looking to adopt the safeguards
and how they can go about that.
And then as far as the assessment and
measurement portion of our working group,
we're looking to get feedback on how we
can further distill and
refine the set of indicators
and measurement tools to assess the
progress andimpact of those WHO
are adopting the safeguards themselves.
We also had some valuable feedback around
the intersection between AI and
the safeguards
as when the safeguards were implemented or
first designed a year ago.
AI wasn't as prevalent as it's now, so AI
and the foundational nature of data
is something that the safeguards group
will continue to implement.
And then we also look forward asa call to
action forany countries that
are looking to adopt the safeguards
to give feedback around how we can make
that adoption process more simple
or if they've already adopted the
safeguards
they can give feedback on our indicators
to how we can refine those to be more in
tune with what they're needing.
And in terms of feedback or takeaways
fromthe panelists,both Armando from
the Dominican Republic
as well asRichard fromSouth Africa shared
their experiences
some key takeaways there
I think forthe critical nature of design
throughout the whole process
as Richard shared
that within South Africa,despite,you
know,good constitution
good protections in place
they were still institutionalizing harm in
some of the DPI that
was being adopted there
so being very aware of that.
And then likewise
design has been a key element of the
ongoing process in the Dominican Republic.
They have like an open, you know, design
system that others can give feedback on,
but even despite everything they're
doing,they still face challenges with
the legacy systems
they have in place,you know,and some of
the other just mindset that
they need to adapt.
And I guess one other piece of feedback
there is thinking about the skill set
of not just the government employees
themselves, but also the skill set of the users
WHO are going to be impacted and adopted
by DPI such that they can give feedback
on how the DPI is impacting them.
Excellent, thank you both.
Let's move to the next one on data
protection in digital public infrastructure.
Perfect, go ahead. Hi.
We were the second breakout room
and we were discussing how to
operationalize data protection in DPI.
So we had several key takeaways from the
section,
and Emily was one of her participants,and
she's going to talk about
a couple of them first.
Thanks, Ennis.
Broadly, it was a very interesting
conversation, both from benchmarking perspective
across multiple different country examples
of data protection in practice and
frameworks around that.
We also focused on expert panel comments
around practical use cases of open source
empowering different solutions for data
protection -- for wallet solutions
and what it means fordifferent lenses
fordata protection and
considerations around that.
Broadly, some of our considerations and
outcomes from the different working groups
within the session kind of talk abouthow
we consider that
open source will continue to be an enabler
and an accelerator around solutions facing
the public, and especially DPI,
but also open source by itself is not
enough.
And so it really requires user trust and
empowerment,
and that comes from good behavior of
organizations from an implementation point of view
and also from a governance point of view.
Part of good behavior also means taking
the right inputs from
different constituencies
when making decisions around DPI
implementation.
And more broadly, there's quite a few
considerations around that from data protection
and governance aspart of those inputs,and
Ennis will talk about
that in just a minute
but when it comes to considerations for
DPI and interoperability,
it really means thatwe have to have both
consortium and
considerations on a national level
to be able to talk about privacy, to be
able to talk about enforcement of standards,
to be able to talk about the evolving
landscape of DPI
and what that means on a national level
and an international level.
And thatconsortium is froma national
standpoint
but also includes a multitude of actors
which should not only be government, but
can be also private sector and multilaterals
to help support thatdecision making and
support the evolution of public solutions
over time.
Ennis, I want to go ahead with your
answer.
Thanks, Emily.
Yeah, so our panel and our discussion groups
have a lot of very interesting thoughts,
and they touched on a very varied set of
topics.
So Emily has talked about our key takeaways
in connection with open source software
and collaboration between different
stakeholders.
A couple of other recurring themes in our
discussions were the importance
of keeping a human-centric perspective in
connection with DPI.
That is thatwhile there are many valid
considerations around DPI,such asefficiency
for example
at the core of DPI, we should always be
thinking about users first.
Linked to this,we talked aboutprivacy by
design andthe fact that
privacy should not be an afterthought
it should always be ingrained into the
system from the start.
And another point which
kept coming up in different ways was the
importance of oversight bodies
that is of having agencies that have the
skills, the funding,
and generally the capacity to enforce data
protection rules.
This came out in several ways,questions
about
how to assess the maturity of data
protection agencies
how to create trust withusers
and how to give these agencies the tool to
actually enforce regulation.
The World Bank has actually been working a
lot on this and
on developing blueprints to assist data
protection in building out their capacities
so hearing everyone's thoughts on this was
particularly helpful for us.
So a lot of the issues that Emily and I
mentioned kind of overlap,
and many lead back to the need to have an
agency or a body that's in charge of
enforcement
and that is tasked with creating awareness
and creating trust and creating cooperation.
And how to kind of take all these ideals
around data protection and data governance
and bring them down to practices that
actually protect users.
So we decided to build our call to action
around that,
and our call to action is to ensure that
DPI systems are trusted,
inclusive,and rights-respecting data
protection enforcement must be embedded from
the start.
And stakeholders should be in dialogue and
coordinated to ensure institutional
accountability mechanisms exist.
Excellent. Love the data protection lens
and privacy by design.
Thank you very much. Let's continue with
the group working on evidence for safety.
Thank you, Laura.
So we discussed three case studies, which
is one from Kenya, one from India,
and one fromBrazil thatreally highlighted
how there are risks that
remain unaddressed or newer risks
thatemerge
and then impact user experience and
therefore user trust.
And then we mapped thatonto examining some
of the existing safeguards that
have been brought up in the DPI safeguards
framework
but then it got us to thinking about how
should these safeguards be upgraded,
and what are ways in which
different stakeholder groups can be engaged
to proactively address some of these
risks
because we have to remember thatDPI systems
are not static systems,and asthey emerge
andas innovation takes place
and they're upside,they're also
downsides,and so
we need to find a way to address those
emerging risks.
And so we had a few calls to action that
emerged.
One is to set up an observatory of emerging
risks,which collates information that
exists across different markets
and that can help us address some of the
risks that are emerging across these markets
and asDPI gets implemented
that will help us then update thinking on
the safeguards framework itself
so that's not static, and then develop
proactive communication strategies for DPI,
and this could be decentralized,much more
agile,and thinks about
engaging different stakeholder groups.
And I'd also like to invite Julia, WHO's
our reporter.
Hi,so given the practical cases thatwe
were given
particularly in the case of Brazil
that is highly centered in disinformation
and misinformation,
we do believe that
having trusted sources of information is
essential to guarantee those safeguards
and we also believe that redress is simply
not enough.
It needs to be well-designed, so it's also
well-resourced and accessible.
Thank you. Thank you so much.
The next one is on co-creating trustworthy
and inclusive DPI.
Anyone from that breakout session?
The focus was on digital sovereignty and
practice, right?
Our breakout session was abouthow digital
public infrastructure DPI can serve as
a practical pathway to sovereignty
not by closing off fromglobal
cooperation,but by embracing it through
shared standards
and transparent governance and
community-backed technology.
And I want to start by thanking all the
panelists and the participants,
because we really had a great energy in
the room and a very live discussion.
And fora handover to David,WHO's our
reporter,I just quickly want to say in which
direction the discussion moved
because one essential point was that
sovereignty obviously is multi-layered,
and there were some voices that said maybe
we needed discussion or definition about
that or just the transparency of which
layer we're talking about.
And then we also talked about leveraging
the whole ecosystem,
so really thinking not about governments,
but about the broader ecosystem
and leveraging partnerships based on this
andreally coming to concrete actions and
implementations together.
Yeah, talking about the WHO won last point
that I want to mention,
because it was highlighted a few times, is
that citizen engagement is key.
So sovereignty, ideally, also means
democratic digital governance.
So transparency,accountability,and public
involvement should be baked into
sovereign DPI.
And I'll hand over to you.
Yeah, thank you.
And I think, as you said, it's that number
of people that participated
that really drove the conversation,we
could have continued probably for
the rest of the day
and certainly I think we will be probably
continuing that
discussion much more in Cape
Town,hopefully.
I think it was really good,we had a
balanced session
we started off at a bit of a panel
where we got some really good views and
some practical examples as well.
We had Yolanda Day able to give some real
use cases from what's happened in Mexico
and what she's seen with the World Bank.
We also had Hannah Day able to give the
perspective of how
Mastodon has done community management and
governance,
and I think that was really important to
put into that discussion.
As we went throughit,as we said,we think
there's probably a little bit more work
thatneeds to be done
and that would be one of our calls for action
on defining what we mean by sovereignty
or the different layers of sovereignty we
can talk about.
But one of the things we came to the
conclusion of was that
actually, sovereignty does not mean you do
everything yourself.
It means you make a conscious decision
what you want to do yourself,
and I think that was an important thing
that we discussed.
So it might be you, relying external
providers,
it might be you have a roadmap to do some
things outside your country,
but bring that knowledge into your country
to do.
It might be around the choice of tools you
want to use.
So I think that was one of the key points
we discussed within it.
We also looked at that dichotomy between
sort of global standards
and what that means for local
implementation.
And we didn't think that,you know
there's necessarily a huge contradiction
between those things.
You know, you can draw from what's
happening globally,
because obviously everyone wants to participate
globally to build up the economy and
do everything else.
So we didn't think there was that, you
know, sort of huge conflict there,
but it's about being able to have that
flexibility to bring in the local input,
the local recognition, the local use
cases, the local examples
to be able to drive those local aspects
from
more of a globally interoperable solution.
So there's definitely stuff we can do
about
working better between initiatives to
encourage that
moving forwards.
And I think,as we said,it's just that
participation in keeping our reference
point correct aswell
you know, DPI has P in the middle of it
and the P stands for public.
If you don't reference what you're doing
back to what the public needs and
the public wants
it's very easy to go down a lovely
technical theoretical route,
but actually need to be grounded in the
use cases and
what that's really going to mean locally
forthose people.
And that's part of that key sovereignty
debate.
So yes,our other call foraction,apart
fromdiscussing more,is really about,you know
leveraging those partnerships
which knows to come up. Excellent. Thank
you so much.
And I echo the excitement andenergy in the
rooms becauseI think that
having practitioners andcountry use cases
and civil servants sharing their
challenges and opportunities,
adapting and adopting these DPI safeguards
framework principles,
it's like what highlighted the
conversation.
So I appreciate that you flagged that.
And we're going to end with the last two
breaking groups.
So I think the next one is learning
fromopen source
global digital cooperation on DPI
forsmaller states.
Who joined that one? Okay, go ahead,
Michael.
Yeah, thank you.
We began our conversation with the premise
that the two communities gathered here,
the public sector and
the larger global open source community
really need each other to thrive and
survive in the future.
Meeting that
the open source community needs the public
sector to be there to enhance the
capacity
forit to grow andthrive
and deal with maintainer burnout and some
of these challenges.
Similarly,the public sector has an
opportunity to learn from
the open source community on many of the
challenges thatit faces
in adopting and advocating for open
source, particularly with DPI.
So withthat said
our session was really focused on
challenges specific to smaller states and
the struggles thatthey face
with the complex andvery often expensive
implementations forsoftware architectures
thatmake up DPI.
And wondering allowed together is whether
or not open source can teach those small
countries how to collaborate
with their neighbors regionally,globally,on
how to share resources and
combine their efforts.
Specifically,the guiding questions thatwe
asked
we initially asked a small group of
individuals fromLatin America
from the Dominican Republic fromIDB,from
Center fromDPI,and we talked about
the challenges thatsmaller states have
in deploying andmaintaining the components
of DPI
how countries can balance this unique need
thatthey have
for specific implementation alongside
sharing common technologies with
other countries
specifically what the common components
might be,what the needs are that
have to remain unique fromcountry to
country.
And then finally,for small countries
how they might form partnerships regionally
or globally to share their expertise
and essentially divide the labor needed to
deploy and maintain DPI.
And with that, I'll turn it over to our
upper tour for the session.
Thank you, Michael.
I'm Manuel fromCDPI
and I'm happy to see how what we discussed
in our group was really aligned
with what other groups were discussing
because the issue of digital sovereignty
was one of the kickstarters of the
conversation.
So we first discussed how open source in
the context of DPI specifically,
it's not just a tech choice or a strategy
to cost reduction
but a path to digital sovereignty.
But the conversation didn't surround much
abouttechnology itself,but about
the community
and how governments, open source
communities can build these collaborations.
So we discussed a lot abouthow forthis to
become sustainable
we need to stop treating open source
assoftware procurement
and start thinking more about how we build
this community.
And this community can include
governments,private players,civil society
and the general public in general.
So we have a few call to actions.
The first one is forgovernments,not just
to invest in products,but also in people.
And this means partnering withlocal
universities,supporting local development
developers,developing capacity on the
ground.
One of the examples we heard fromwas the
OSPO thatwas set up recently in Trinidad
andTobago
and how the government has adopted an open
source first policy.
But it doesn't stop there, of course, we
need also to develop that market layer.
And specifically in the context of DPI
we see how we might have sometimes mature
open source solutions
but the market layer is not there yet.
So we,for example,mentioned,we highlighted
the example of Drupal that
we had heard earlier today.
So the second con to action is to support
the development of this private ecosystem
forthese open source tools to be adopted.
Then we discussed also a lot aboutthe
international layer of community building
especially forsmall countries.
Small countries can't go alone.
So one of the examples we heard that's a
really good contribution was from
the Dominican Republic
WHO's implementing a range of open source
tools
and they've translated the technical
documentation to Spanish fortheir own use
but it made it available for other
countries to leverage.
So that's a third call to action to
encourage for
governments to be more open in the
resources they use forthemselves
and making them available for others.
And finally,one of the blockers,one of the
challenges we discussed has to do with
the legal side.
So procurement and cross-border use, sometimes
we still see a lot of barriers there.
Public money comes always cross
jurisdictions
and one of the good examples we've heard
was fromIDP,creating some guidelines for
open source procurement
and how this has helped civil servants
that
are on the front line acquire open source
tools
mitigating some of the legal risks.
So the final call to action is to come up
with some procurement innovation tools.
Excellent.
And last butnot least,let's hear what was
discussed in the breaking barriers
open source digital IDP payments
forinclusion session.
Great.
Thanks, Ora.
I want to just second what other people
have said,which is the room,there was so
much enthusiasm in the room.
We could have definitely spoken about this
all day.
Our session today was part of the'55
campaign,which is about
the implementation of safe andinclusive
DPI.
And we focused really on what barriers
andchallenges there are through
the use of digital payments anddigital ID
whenaddressing inclusion.
And to start the session, we had two
interventions.
One was fromMarinez Daniel fromthe East
Africa community to speak from
an implementers perspective.
And then we also heard fromGabby andOtebi
fromMOSIP to speak from
product owners perspective.
And thatwas really useful in thatwe kind
of heard three main buckets
regulatory challenges,technical challenges,and
of course,cultural challenges and
adoption andfrom an inclusion lens.
I also led a mini breakout within the
breakout, specifically about digital payments.
And in thatwe heard more aboutwhat some of
these challenges are
particularly I think the enabling
environment kept coming up.
In particular,I think the governance,the
regulatory frameworks
even just the physical infrastructure can
prevent access.
In terms of political well aswell,the
importance of ensuring that
there's high level buy-in to the
implementation of a digital payment software.
We also heard a lot aboutcompetition
between some of the players
particularly in cross-border
implementation of digital payments.
I think telecom companies andbanks in
particular where
sometimes the lines are a bit blurred.
And then from a, I guess, the implementer
side of things as well.
I think we heard aboutthe technological
side and
many people don't actually have a
smartphone or access to smartphones.
So the majority of payments,for
example,with Moja Loop and
a lot of contacts are using feature
phones.
I think there's intimidation of actually
using the solution.
It can be too difficult to learn a new
skill and
so targeted outreach to particularly people
WHOare less technologically inclined.
Older people need to be given very
specific education.
The younger generation aswell can,despite
being technologically savvy
also susceptible to exploitation,for
example,being easily scammed.
And then finally,in terms of,hang on a
second,I can't read my own handwriting here
in terms of the way thatopen source
anddigital public goods can play a role here.
I think there's collaboration on what's
working
keeping the solutions extremely simple to
reduce that,I guess,a learning curve.
It should be intuitive from the outset.
And I will now hand over to Parmard WHOwas
asa rapporteur and
was part of the digital ID discussion.
Hello everyone, I represent the digital ID
mini breakout group within our breakout.
So first of all, we had a really live and
engaging discussion.
We had our disagreements and agreements.
So one thing thatwe all agree aboutthe
digital ID is that
it will provide seamless provision of
governmental services to everyone.
So thatwas something whichwe all agreed
thatit's a major positive about
having the digital ID.
However,there were many negatives thatwe
discussed
but these negatives were not purely
technological.
It was rather like from a societal
perspective or rather socio-technical.
So the first thing thatwe deeply discuss
is the challenge of tracking people WHO
don't want to be tracked.
So we discussed aboutsome examples related
to the COVID-19 pandemic,contact tracing
and many issues countries had to tackle
because most of the people were forced to
be tracked.
So what will be the consequences whenwe
implement a digital ID in a situation where
especially in the context of healthcare
andmany other sensitive areas
where there may be a lot of societal
impacts of implementing it without really
taking the due care.
And then the issue aboutmarginalized
population WHO
are basically outside of the system.
So if somebody is outside of the system
and we implement digital ID,
we kind of further enforce them to be
outside of the system and
they will not be able to access the relevant
services provided by the government.
So that was the one challenge that we
discussed.
And then something about conflicts with
the societal norms.
So if I may quote my colleague
fromMossip,he highlighted the scenario where
when digital ID andpayments are
integrated.
And if you try to implement a system in
rural Africa,where forexample
government officials goes to rural
households andtry to disperse cash to wives
what will be the perspective andthe
reaction fromthe husbands WHO
won't kind of like this kind of mechanism
of dispersing cash.
So likewise,like whether we agree fully
withthe contextualized concerns that
each countries are having is also
something thatwas discussed.
And also when you implement digital ID,
the countries are so diverse.
So in certain countries, the people won't
trust the system or trust the government.
So if that's the case,handing over the ID
credentials,biometrics to the governments
and what they will do withit andhow to
handle thatwas again a challenge that
was discussed.
So a few areas related to the way forward.
The first thing is like there is no
one-size-fits-all approach.
When it comes to digital ID implementation,
it has to be highly contextualized.
So countries have to get involved and
they have to really take patient steps in
implementing these digital ID systems.
And then there has to be empowerment of
the countries.
So it has to be fully owned by the country
and
there has to be country capacity to maintain
it andto kind of implement it in a way
thatis acceptable to the majority of the
country without creating chaos.
And this also requires setting up of
proper governance mechanisms in the country
before you implement the ID systems.
And it was also highlighted that
there has to be some step-wise implementation
approaches wherepeople kind of learn
frominitial pilots andthen adapt it
accordingly
rather than going for a full-scale
implementation.
And then the need for
connecting it to use cases rather than
just trying to implement the digital ID
meaning like there has to be some use
cases where
people will be incentivized to use a
digital ID.
Without that,if you just try to implement
the ID asjust a concept
it will not be successful.
Finally,one thing everyone agreed was
thatthere has to be a digital first approach
whenimplementing ID,but not a digital only
approach.
So that's the final thing, the group
agreed. Thank you.
Excellent.
Thank you so much.
Thank you all.
Let's give them a big round of applause,
please.
We have a couple of minutes, so we're
going to open the floor.
If anyone has any reflection, reaction to
what we shared.
If you were part of those discussions,if
we want to add something
we have a couple of minutes.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
So one of the questions I have been asked
in the DPI domain is what kind of public
sector learn
fromthe private sector?
And I mean, obviously, I think we can
always learn from each other.
I think that's why we're all here.
And there are some great open source work
already done in the public sector
of course.
So for the other way around, I think I
have a nice example as well.
So in our state in the southwest of
Germany called Baden Wutemberg.
So if you can pronounce that, you're on a
good way to master the German language.
And then actually becausethat's a mouthful
even forGermans,you know
we just started abbreviating it andcalling
it just the land spelled L-A-Umlaut with
the two dots above it andthe land.
And so that turned into a bit of a
marketing campaign.
And what came next was now a new
initiative called the Foss Land.
And sohere the minister president of Baden
Wutemberg,the land
he summoned the CEO of Mercedes-Benz,Ola
Kalenius
as well asfrom Porsche andBosch,WHO are
also headquartered in Baden Wutemberg
the land.
And the University of Kosovo and also the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
And they got together at the end of last
year andthey signed a letter of intent with
the goal to strengthen the open source
infrastructure in the land,henceforth known
asthe Foss Land.
And sowhat the intent here is thatthe
state government can learn open source from
the big companies,but also the smaller
andmedium sized companies can learn from
the big companies.
And the smaller andmedium enterprises mind
you
they are the backbone of the German
industry.
But they don't always have the resources
that the big companies have.
You know,big companies,for example,have
legal departments WHO
understand open source licenses.
We also have a lot of engineers WHO
understand open source through and through.
And the small companies, they don't
necessarily always have that.
So it is now our intent thatwe,the large
companies,support
better support the smaller companies to
learn open source,for example
through gatherings andlearning sessions
andso forth.
And a few of these have already taken
place and more are to follow.
So why would we do that, you might ask?
One reason is corporate social
responsibility,which we do take seriously
but it's not completely altruistic
either,because some of these small and
medium enterprises,they're our suppliers.
And it's in our own best interest thatthey
know how FOS works becausewe asked them
please use FOS in the development of
software.
Please provide good digital S-bombs,you
know,social software bill of materials
because that's important.
And so,but all in all,I think this is,has
worked quite nicely sofar andis,I think
going to work even better in the future.
And I think it's a good example of how the
public sector,the state government
they can learn fromthe private sector at
the same time orchestrating that
there is a knowledge transfer fromthe
large companies to the small and
medium enterprises.
And sofor the future,I hope that
such a collaboration in certain fields of
software within industries and
across industries,and of course,across
countries will be not the exception
but the norm.
Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Good
example.
Do we have time for other two questions? I
just don't want to double check.
Let's go. Go ahead. Thank you.
I wanted to bring up just two issues.
I mean,it has been a fascinating
discussion andreporting back from
the different teams covering a spectrum of
issues around DPI.
Two issues I wanted to bring up.
One is the issue of institution building
within the public sector,
because DPI cuts across many different
ministries,agencies
and also cuts across the public andprivate
spheres
because I think good robust DPI planning
and
implementation needs public-private
partnerships of some sort.
So that requires potentially new types of
institutions for sustainability.
So it could be a consortium.
It could be a new institution within the
public sphere or through
some kind of public-private partnerships.
So I wanted to hear fromcountries whichare
thinking aboutin Bangladesh,which is
whereI worked forabout 19 years,building
DPIs fromscratch.
We didn't call it DPI at that time.
We needed new institutions.
We actually needed to modify institutions
and create new institutions to steer DPI.
So I wanted to hear from others.
That's one.
Second is the issue of regulation,because
it inevitably requires regulation and
legal changes in ID,in payments,in data
sharing,privacy,cybersecurity.
So there are many different legal
instruments that have to change.
So legal revisions have to be done.
Not just creation of new laws,but revision
of old laws thathave existed fordecades
potentially centuries.
In Bangladesh,we had to change the stamp
act fromthe 1800s,evidence act
so many different things.
So I wanted to again hear abouthow the
regulatory and
the legal environment needs to change
forDPI to take institutional shape.
Thank you. Thank you so much. Last
question or reaction?
It's not a question.
I guess I've been in the third group, and
I tried to do some digital things.
So my name is CPAIS, and I'm the founder
and the CEO of the World Disaster Center.
One thing thatI want to mention is a bit
more fromthe practical world
because we have been talking aboutDPIs,how
we can try to kind of organize them
try to make sure we respect the
regulations andso many things.
But I want to raise something thatis very
crucial,and something I've been talking
abouttwo weeks ago at the GP25,the Global
Platform on Disasters.
I mentioned it aswell today
and I've been mentioning it to all the
other organizations.
We are currently in a world wherein the
next six months
there's going to be at least 24 countries
thatmight be affected by disasters.
And those countries, they are kind of not
prepared.
There is no human sharing organization
that's going to go becauseof the funding cuts
and there's really nothing at all.
One thing thatwe did fromour side was to
build a DPI platform that
is a bit more flexible to track in real
time.
Those are the needs forpeople,and also
make sure that
there is kind of a corridor between the
vulnerable people andthe donors so
that they can receive in real time the
supports.
My question is one thing. I've not heard
someone mentioning about the blockchain.
What do you think can be the crucial of
the blockchain intothis thing
because we're talking abouttransparency,we're
talking aboutthe regulations.
And then the second thing is about,is it
just enough to talk aboutthis
because there is no global coordination on
DPIs right now existing.
IT is trying,it is level,it is level,and
the broadband aswell,it is level
because at the end of the day,whatever we
discuss here
it should be really going to make sure
there is an impact on people.
We have countries wherewe're coming
from,where those disasters will happen and
they will kill people,they will affect
people.
And something thatis not forthe first
time,it has been happening the last 20 years
the same place,the same people,the same
number,the same impact
and no one is doing something.
We have the opportunity to do it,to change
something withnew digital solutions
and whatever we're going to discuss
here,whatever we're going to conclude here
I believe it's better.
We can make it more practical
withsomething thatis concrete
and that's my most important question.
How do we make it practical?
Thank you so much.
Thank you. Do we have time for just last,
last, last reaction? Okay.
I'll be grounded, but no worries, let's
go. Last, last question, or reaction.
Thank you very much, I will try to be
brief to catch up in time.
We will be kind of first part witha bit of
reaction,but I will make it a connection
withthe two points thatwere raised.
So,yes,from all the discussions thatwe
heard,not just in our breakout session,but
fromthe other tools,I can make one kind of
very short conclusion,so thatthe key word
thatwe heard a lot was trust.
So how to come to that trust?
And the connection is between the building
the partnership between the government
institution,the private sector
and the civil society,but not any
government institution.
We need a strong government institution
thatwill be there to work in parallel and
together withthe private sector.
So we don't need the government institution
to be just the police,just police
it can enforcing the law,but the ones
thatwill work with
the private sector to ensure how to get
there to ensure the compliance and
to help them.
But also we need the private sector to
transfer the knowledge to the public sector
andtogether to build the infrastructure
we're talking about.
The last butnot least is thatwe all
concluded thatwe need to have inclusive and
human centering design withhaving the
people in focus.
We need to build with the people and for
the people.
That's why we need these solutions.
And just to make the final remark on the
connection thatwas mentioned about
the new regulations thatneed to be
adopted.
And of course, how this all these things
will work.
So yes,we can all agree thatwith the new
digital andnew regulations are necessary.
But what we need is to have not just a
regulation in place
because having a regulation in place
without the infrastructure be rollout and
the strong institutions to enforce it,we
have just useless piece of paper.
And if we have another tick box
thatwe,yes,we have a new privacy law
but without a proper implementation,it
will be just a useless piece of paper.
And the third phase,once we have the
regulation and
we have the infrastructure rollout,let's
say EAD or PKI systems.
The third step is to have the uptake
andthe people using it
because if we build even the most advanced
highway,if nobody uses it
it's just a waste of money.
So that's why we need to have strategic
planning.
Yes,we need the regulation,we need to have
the institutions
we need society ready to use it,to have
the skills
to have the public administration ready to
use it.
So we need to move step by step toward
this process.
Otherwise, having just a piece of
legislation without a proper implementation.
And people using the solutions, we will
lose precious time.
That's why the DPSF guards,as they are
designed now,can really be used as
a tool to help the government on how to
really get there.
Thank you so much.
I really want to thank you all.
I worked 10 years in government,so I'm
biased,of course,and I think it's a good bias
becauseI was in thatpart of the
environment
implementing and trying to push this type
of agendas.
And now thatI'm in the other side,funder,downer
side,it's amazing to work with
you all withcivil servants.
So thank you all the civil servants
thatare here,that share all your anecdotes
challenges,projects andinitiatives that
you're implementing right now in big or
small countries,thanks to the private sector
aswell.
Other companies that share their
experiences, I agree.
I think thatwe need to be open to share
lessons to learn fromeach other
from public sector to private sector,also
to CSOs.
I was part of a discussion wherethere were
like some activist people from
civil society thatbrought important
frictions whenwe're talking about
like marginalized communities,populations,context
matters,reality matters.
So thank you to all of those actors that
were here with us as well.
There are additional organizations,of
course,and initiatives like OSPOS
you mentioned the OSPOS,thank you somuch
forthis type of examples,and I think that
every country should learn aboutthose two
initial OSPOS thatwe're setting up.
And I just want to say andhighlight the
connections among those cultural actions
commitments,et cetera.
We heard many principles are
important,right,like trust,you mentioned trust
the difference between low trust
environments to high trust environments.
We mentioned sovereignty,ownership,the
frictions between global tracks and
local tracks.
We need to localize these efforts.
We need to map out the local actors
thatcountries and
actually governments want to work withand
engage withprivate sector,CSOs,researchers
aswell.
So I think that it's interesting to see all
these dots that we might need to connect.
I think it's super interesting to have so
many open questions.
And that's why I really encourage you all
to be at our global phase summit.
I really hope and
look forward to seeing you there in Cape
Town to continue this conversation to be
able to understand there are
somany countries thathave lessons to share
about.
Adopting these type of frameworks, these
type of principles.
And there are some others that they really
want to start doing it.
So I think thatit would be incredible if
we all of us
we are accountable of those commitments.
They're actionable and they are super
concrete.
So thank you all to all the rapporteurs
that were super specific.
And yeah, look forward to seeing you at
Cape Town.
Thank you, and thank you, Maurice.
Yes, thank you very much for sharing your
perspectives.
I think this is what makes this place
truly great.
Next, we are turning to our last panel of
the day.
On the question, how can we empower DPI
implementations across Africa?
But before we do that,I want to get a
quick show of hands on so
I can get an idea of how useful this week
was foryou in terms of networking,because
thatwas one of the key points thatwe
received last year.
So WHOhas met more than one person
thatthey are sure that
they work within the future?
All right, more than five.
More than five, okay. Seven.
All right, okay, so we take it, there was
almost enough space to network.
And before we kick off the panel and Toby
from audit will be moderating it.
We have the pleasure to welcome Travin
Rabinat
WHO's Director of Digital Government in
Lesotho to offer some keynote remarks in
advance to the panel.
Thank you, and good day, everyone.
Please not leave. I know this is the graveyard
shift, but it's going to be exciting.
I've already been introduced andI've got a
few minutes
so I'm going to get straight to the point.
Let me just give you some global
perspective as well.
South Africa is the current G20
presidency.
I have the privilege of working aspart of
the Digital Economy Working Group,and so
there's four thematic areas there in
thatgroup.
And I can tell you now, DPI takes the most
interest, okay?
And from a South African perspective, we
actually want to leave some sort of legacy.
Obviously, we're taking the baton from
India and Brazil.
And sopart of our proposals in the ministerial
declaration is on the guidelines for
an integrated governance framework forGPI
and thatwill actually include also the
UNDP safeguards
and also a cost-benefit analysis andbeyond
tool.
And I say beyond becauseit's not aboutdollars
andcents or rents andcents,but it's
aboutalso the social economic impacts.
So if countries haven't got onto the DPI
bandwagon andstarted moving
this is actually a good tool foractually
doing this
and to showcase to the population of the
individual citizens these are the
cost-benefit analysis.
I'm also glad that South Africa was
mentioned quite a couple of times.
I'm not sure why one could be the
presidency of the G20.
One is thatwe actually focused on a great
digital transformation journey
which is underpinned by DPI.
Or maybe the other thing is that you'll be
in Cape Town in November.
So I'm not sure, but it's all positive for
South Africa.
So in South Africa,by the way,I was there
for
quite a long time in the digital government
space trying to create initially the
e-government.
And our focus is on trying to accelerate
our government efforts to digitize it by
2030.
And although we have different levels in
different scenarios of digitization
what brings everything together is the
basic components of DPI.
And so we're quite excited about that.
And as we unfold, we'll let you all know
how things are happening.
But from an African perspective, DPI
provides so much opportunities.
As it was mentioned before,telling someone
or your citizens about
digital ID or payments or the gateway
doesn't make much sense to them.
But if you can able to use thatto demonstrate
to your citizens,this creates services
thatcan enhance their lives,show them the
benefits thatthey have.
Then it becomes important.
And I heard about the use cases.
It becomes extremely important.
Now, obviously in Africa, there's 54
nations, so there's not one size fits all.
And that was mentioned already.
What's important thatif we can get a use
case forAfrica,and I think my colleague
fromthe East Africa community mentioned
this earlier in his presentation
if we can get a nice use case wherewe can
actually get people to move across borders
which then,obviously,if you're going
across borders
you will actually need money to spend or
to trade.
So the payments come in and data flows go
across.
It becomes a very good use case for Africa
in general.
However,because of the different
diversities andthe challenges thatwe have
we've got to use pilots falling in love
withindividual problems
solve the problems, I think, locally, but
think regionally and globally.
And if you can do that, it will be very,
very effective.
I'm not going to be too long.
I'm skipping through some of these things.
But in Africa alone,we have a very youthful
population,so innovation comes withit.
We also like using the mobile phones
so it becomes very easy to do things on a
agile basis.
We can also leak from some of the legacy
systems we have.
And I think innovation, we can actually
create solutions that are actually great.
One thing,which is very common in what we
need to focus on aswell
and I love some of the comments we talked
aboutdigital sovereignty
or technical sovereignty, is that we need
to create, tailor-made solutions.
Now, some of the challenges in Africa is
different from the rest of the world.
It could relate to Asia or East Asia,
but we need to make DPI solutions by
Africa, for Africa.
Obviously, we can share this with everyone
else,
but we need to create solutions forourselves
andbecome technically sovereign so
we're not vendor-locked in.
I think there's lots of opportunities
forSouth Africa and
the rest of the world to contribute.
And I like what was said about technical
sovereignty.
It doesn't mean that we need, or
government needs to own the solution.
I know in South Africa aswe build the DPI
focus
we're actually creating the DPI ecosystem
for
non-government to actually create
applications.
So NGOs, SMM is the private sector to do
that.
And I hope that will be greatly adopted.
Lastly,it's important thatwe actually
build capacity,not only from
a development point of view,but also
fromthe citizens
because if they can love the solutions
anduse it more effectively
it's going to benefit everyone.
With that said, I say thank you very much.
It's been a very useful discussion at this
conference
and I'm sure there's great outputs.
With that said, thank you so much.
Thank you,Travin,and thank you,everyone,for,as
Travin mentioned,staying for
the graveyard shift.
I can promise you that this is going to be
the best panel of the day.
So once again, good afternoon, everyone.
Welcome to the session on Empowering DPI
implementation across the African
continent.
My name is Soupy Qasali. I'm Senior
Analyst at ODIT.
So asmomentum builds globally around
digital public infrastructure
we're seeing an expansion of DPI
initiatives across the continent.
Governments are launching ambitious
digital initiatives
they're investing in data exchange
infrastructure
and they're developing payment systems to
enable more inclusive and
efficient public service delivery.
This also offers us a timely moment to
think more strategically about DPI,
not only assystems thatare offered,public
services policy foundation for
digital economy andthe AI ecosystem.
When designed withinclusion in top of
ability andsafeguards fromthe outset
DPI can unlock innovation
they can support access to new markets
withstartups
and they can enable in AI solutions at
scale.
So therefore,our session today brings
together leaders from
across government development andfinance
and the tech ecosystem to explore how DPI
is being implemented across African
context.
Very quickly, I'm going to invite my
panelists to join me.
So Aussie Kan from World Bank, please join
me. Thank you.
Asan Geye, the co-director of the PASI
Network, Carnegie Mellon University.
Jane Munga, the fellow from African program,
Kanagi and Domi for Intentional Peace.
And Noah Hoptman, I hope I got that
correct.
Go of stock partnership with KIC. Thank
you.
(Applause)
So I want to start witha question forthe
audience
which might help shape our discussion
fortoday.
So to begin, I extract GPT.
I said,what makes African DPI landscape
unique and
what makes the Afghan landscape unique?
And I got this sort of top 10 responses.
I mean, I did do a little bit of curating.
So if you could take out your
phones,look,use the QR code and
let me know what three you think.
You really think make the African
landscape unique.
Do you agree with sort of the curated chat
GPT responses?
(Inaudible) Can we scroll through the
responses, please?
Okay, youth-led innovation, I see it's
quite strong.
Critical local capacity building needs,
infrastructure constraint realities,
profound digital inclusion challenges,
back down.
Thank you.
So a little bit of course, part of focus,
a little bit of the asset-friendly focus.
And a little bit of focus on formalizing
the formal sector anda big strong,I think
hint on mobile facelift fora game.
Okay,so I think actually what strikes me
fromthis,when I see sort of the responses
aswell
is thatthere's a balance between some of
the challenges and
some of the opportunities.
So we have a lot of challenges in
infrastructure, sort of constraints,
but we also have this sort of youth-led
innovation that confer opportunities for DPI.
Now to my panelists,I'm going to ask you
each to introduce yourself
share a brief overview of the work.
Your organization is leading in DPI space
across Africa.
And what opportunities you're seeing
thatmakes the Africa context both unique and
globally relevant.
Does anything here that you saw that
struck you? Please add it. Asan?
Thanks, Toby.
And thank you for having me. Thanks,
everyone. Hi to my fellow panelists.
My name is Asan Gay. I'm a faculty member
with Carnegie Mellon University.
I'm based in our campus in Kigali,Rwanda
where I lead what we call the Upanzi DPI
network.
It's a network of research lab that
focuses on DPI.
I think thatI will claim thatwe are the
first and
maybe the only DPI lab in the continent.
What do we do?
Carnegie Mellon University in Africa,in
fact,the aim is to create tech leaders for
the continent.
And to tell you how we do it,maybe I would
like to use one example of a program that
we recently run
which is a digital idea hackathon that we
run across the continent.
And I was happy.
I mean,I was not surprised thatcapacity
building was one of the main issues that
the audience identified
that makes Africa unique. And this is
really the essence of our existence.
So in this idea hackathon, what did we do?
First raising awareness about digital
idea.
So aswe are embarking in this digital idea
journey in the continent
do we even know what the concept is?
Not just from us talking about it, but for
the people WHO will be using it.
For the people WHOwill be building the
solutions thatwe need in the continent
the student I need.
So we start by doing awareness building
and then technical training, capacity.
We definitely need to have the local
skills that we need for these technologies.
We need them locally in order to sustain
this. It is imperative.
If we don't want to miss this train, we
need to have the capacity.
So we train the student technically andwe
give them a digital idea platform for
them to innovate.
So what do they do? They identify a local
problem and they come up with a solution.
Which is also something that we mentioned
in the pool.
Being able to develop the solutions
withthe young people that
we have in the continent.
So we train them,then we give them a
platform
then we coach them to implement the
solution
and have a prototype of the product. But
it does not end there.
So after the competition,we cannot do it
forall teams,but forthe winners at least
we are now incubating them.
So thatbeyond just having a toy product
they are now working on making this
actually market ready
so that they can turn this into a
business.
So we are currently working withseveral
partners to incubate them andget them into
the market.
But beyond that,our goal was really to
create a movement
to create an ecosystem of builders around
digital idea.
Because it's good we can have it, but once
you have a digital idea, what is it for?
What can you use it for?
And the solution that we are building
should come from the needs.
I always say thatI don't want to be a lab
whereI sit in my lab,I invent a problem
andI come up witha solution.
I want to work on something for which
there is someone WHO cares.
And this is what happened in this.
So I know that, I don't know if I'm taking
too much time,
but forwhat makes Africa unique,a couple
of points
then I will pass it to the next panelists.
So we are first in an environment where we
have 54 countries.
We are not designing or implementing for
one country.
We have 54 different,for example,ID
laws,not 54 at the moment because
some countries are still working on it.
So how do you make,for example,interoperability
across the continent possible when
you have different laws?
So that's one thing that makes Africa very
unique and challenging.
Second one is the business model that we
have in the continent.
So mobile was one of the items that we
talked about in the list.
And yes, we access the internet through
mobile and we pay for it.
So I work on security and what we notice
is that many people, for example,
in the continent, they activated their
automatic updates.
And that brings the risk and you try to
understand why.
Why? Because automatic updates eats a lot
of data and they pay for data.
So that brings something unique that we
really need to be thinking about.
And maybe one last point sothat I can pass
it is we are very young into
this technology.
And we have the chance to do it right at
this time.
If we take the time to think about it, to
put in place everything that is needed,
we can do it right for the world.
If we rush and we don't do it well, I
think that if we miss this revolution,
I don't know when is the next one for the
continent and for the world.
Let me pass it to the next.
Thank you, Assan. Thank you.
I think you've already touched on a number
of some of the challenges we saw.
I think the key thing you mentioned is
also realizing the benefits of DPI.
What are we going to do as a technical
system as a country?
Not just thinking about DPI as a system,
but for the services, for the benefits,
for the citizens, that has to be the
focus.
Not just developing DPI, developing DPI,
for something useful.
What was there? Thank you, and thank you
for inviting me here.
I'm Azir Khan, a bit of my background.
I grew up in software engineering, started
coding within Silicon Valley,
and then I spent about a decade in this
building.
I was working for UN, so I know all the
halls here.
And then I joined Asian Development Bank,
and currently I'm heading tech for
applications in World Bank.
So in my group, we are generally in
development institutions,
we look at DPI from the lens of
development.
And I've been watching this space very
carefully for the last decade or so.
If you look at what World Bank does today,
we heard from, I think one of my
colleagues earlier this morning, on the
program that we have put in place,
on the investments that we're doing in
things on digital ID, on connectivity,
on FinTech, on payment infrastructure.
And where we are today, we're in a way at
the crossroads of data and AI upon us.
We're at the crossroads of where, when we
look at what resonated with me here in the
back was youth.
And one of the things we're looking at,
for example, is jobs and employment.
And when you start looking at it from
those lens and trying to make connections
between DPI and job creation, DPI and AI
public goods, you can see there are
opportunities, you see there are challenges,
and how to make that framework to put in
place to move forward on the development
index.
And one of the areas we're trying to frame
is how to look at it for development
and from multiple angles.
One is WHO makes, WHO progresses by making
DPI?
Who progresses by operating DPI?
Who progresses by using DPI?
So kind of thinking through these lenses
to see, okay, if we do this,
where is the public benefit and where the
GDP growth?
So a lot of the work that we do in terms
of research and development institutions
is to tie these dots to see where the real
impact is going to be, where you will
actually move the needle.
Jobs creation is an excellent one.
We have, I think, the number is correct.
I'm correct. I think 1.2 billion youth is
entering the job market.
And they were promised that if you go to
college and master's degree,
you'll get a good job. That may not be the
case.
So now we have this youth entering.
Then AI is going to make a dent in the
workforce of tomorrow.
And then it's for us to connect the dots
between DPI, DPGs,
AIPGs, and the world that we will create in
the future, leveraging what we know today.
So for me, we have the crossroads.
And Africa provides a unique development
landscape.
Maybe the biggest development landscape,
if you think through it, youth,
the gap gives opportunities more than any
other continent at the moment.
Thank you. Thank you, Jose.
I think the sort of opportunity with the
youth demographic that Africa has
is going to be a key aspect of not just
sort of development
across the continent by innovation and
making use of sort of the digital
and emerging technologies that we have in
DPI, the link between DPI
and AI for data, for innovation, for
access to sort of the regional markets
that we have. I want to talk a little bit
about interoperability
and how that can support this push for job
creation
and innovation that's not only linked to,
like you say,
go into university, get to know, what
about entrepreneurship?
How can DPI drive that sort of innovation?
Thank you. Jane? Good afternoon.
My name is Jane Munga. A little about me
from Kenya.
And my career background has, well, it
started in academia.
Then I spent about 10 years working in the
front lines of government,
particularly policy, developing policies
in the ministry of ICT,
so digital policies, digital economy,
digitalizing government.
So after 10 years, I put that hat down and
decided to move into the thinking world.
So now I think Tank, the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace,
not to be confused with Carnegie Mellon,
because that always happens.
It was me, how is Carnegie Mellon?
I mean, the think tank, but we call abroad
closely.
So at Carnegie Endowment, we are a think
tank that looks at global issues
that are shaped in the world.
We are truly, we have centers across the
world.
I mean, the Africa program.
The Africa program,we look specifically at
the issues that
are shaping Africa's landscape.
And then when I go a bit down into that, then
I mean, the technology stream that I leave,
that whereby we look at the Africa
program, the Africa context
and the digital economy of the African
continent,
and specifically how the regulatory environment
is unfolding and it's shaping itself.
So the research that we have done there is
we have created a tracker,
whereby we have tried to develop a digital
repository for
all digital economy policies
that are happening within a continent.
I think this is something that there's not
much light into what's going on.
I think, as I say, that there are 54 countries
plus one, depends on WHO you're asking.
But even what's more interesting is within
those four countries,
there are about 3, 000 different tribes or
different groupings of people.
Very unique languages, very unique
cultures, very unique ways of life
that make Africa very unique.
So for us, it's to try and look at the key
nuances, especially in the tech landscape,
as we are unfolding the digital economy
and trying to bring those insights out.
I think for me, what's most unique and
exciting about this work is fast in the DPI.
It's because digital transformation is
already happening in the continent.
There's a lot of excitement around
innovation.
But we are not yet clear how we can truly
move from potential to reality.
I think we stand at that cost whereby we
can put the levers that are pivotal
to ensuring that everybody benefits
inclusively.
So our research looks at that.
And also at the digital transformation and
what are some of the policy
recommendations around that.
So what's unique, I've just mentioned the
different cultures.
But also what's unique is, of course, what
everybody has said is that young people,
there's a lot of potential in the young
people
and how can we move their potential now
to the reality that they deserve and have
been demanding for years.
I think I'll stop there, then I can go
further in the next slide. Thank you.
Jane,I think you touched on,again,one of
the key,I would say
traits of sort of the African landscape.
It's just a shared diversity of the
continent, you know, in terms of DPI.
And this, you know, has implications, even
for cost.
You know,if you're implementing a societal
wide IT system
it has to be in some countries.
There has to be in maybe five or six
languages.
You know,the sort of different,you know
if we have sort of disparities we have
sometimes
in sort of the rural andlocal
communities,you have to think further about
what happens in the last mile.
So I think,yes
we're going to touch a bit further on some
of the inclusion challenges thatwe face.
But I'll go first to Nora to give us an
introduction.
Yeah, thank you so much for having me.
I'm Nora Hauptmann,partnership lead forthe
Gus Tech initiative
and my way was a bit the other way round
than yours.
I'm coming fromthe thinking world anda
think tank and
NGO world always working on digital human
rights,digital social access and
things like that.
And now moving to the German International
Corporation
which is one of the stakeholders of the
Gus Tech initiative next to Estonia andITU
as we have heard earlier.
Yeah,through Gus Tech
we support governments around the world to
digitize services based on modular
interoperable building blocks
andshared open standards.
And most of the countries that we work
with are on the African continent.
So I'm happy thatI can share a few of the
observations andexperiences that
we make by working withthese countries.
And what we see is thatmany or
that,yeah,the countries thatwe work with
are at very different stages or points in
the digital transformation journey.
So there's some countries WHOdo not have
an immense legacy system
which gives them the opportunity to think
aboutinteroperability from
an early phase on,which can be an
advantage.
And there's other countries WHOhave been
making a lot of experiences andare thinking
abouthow to scale their services intodifferent
regions or globally like Rwanda as
we've heard before.
And soI think this diversity on the
continent combined with
very rapid digital growth presents a
unique opportunity to develop scalable DPI
solutions
thatcan be adapted locally to local needs
andchanging contexts.
And be still relevant regionally and
globally.
And yeah,and we also see a strong
political will across African countries for
regional collaboration
especially on digital topics like in the
East African community.
And we do think that
DPI being developed in this unique context
can unlock financial inclusion and
create more equitable access to government
services
which I think is the ultimate goal forfor
most of them.
Thank you.
Thank you very much, Nora.
So just to dive a little bit deeper,Jane
you mentioned regulatory pluralism on the
continent,right?
And Nora, you've just spoken about Model I
interoperable DPI.
So my first question is going to go to
you.
So how can modular interoperable DPI help
address more the challenges we see with
regulatory pluralism?
The truth is,you know,if you think
aboutfor countries across the continent
it's going to be really difficult to have
sort of political harmonization.
Really to say,Oh,this is,you know,let's all
come together asin a political union and
talk aboutthis is exactly how all the laws
have to be aligned exactly.
So how can modular interoperable DPI
address regulatory pluralism at sort of the
technical level?
So we,we call DPI becomes interoperable,but
addressing this challenge thatwe have.
How do we become enjoyable
even though we have this sort of regulatory
sort of diversity across the continent.
Yeah.
Thanks for that question.
I think it remains a work that is being
developed.
One key lesson learned fromour side is
thatideally interoperability
as I said earlier,is addressed in an early
stage.
Well, that is, as we said, our legacy
system. So we're a bit beyond that.
But what is still important is fromall
point of view is that
interoperability is addressed asa framework
andnot asan afterthought or add on that
we think aboutlater on.
Because,yeah,interoperability enabled
services thatto work together smoothly and
to prevent costly silos andit can improve
user experience.
And I think that's the ultimate goal to
have a smooth experience for the citizens.
And the gas tech approach building on open
source building block has been developed
by a global community of tech experts.
And some of them are actually here this
week,which I think is very exciting and
nice opportunity to meet.
And now they're now being adapted to the
local context andthe changes that
also happen in most of the
countries,right?
We're not developing a solution for today,
but for the upcoming years.
So thatchallenge itself to build something
thatis locally adapted
but still globally relevant sothat we can
keep on sharing global learnings
I think is a very important point.
And forthat,we want to need to strengthen
regional coordination
which becomes more easier if we have
shared standards andframeworks that
are harmonized andpolicies thatare
aligned.
So, yes, that's the challenge.
How do we get that?
One way thatwe see thatis important are to
have platforms thatenable governments and
the other elements of the ecosystem.
To share their learnings,best practices
asthis plays an important role in that
process.
And one initiative thatI want to mention
is the 15/5 campaign
which I think most of you know we're also
supporting it asgas tech because
I think really bringing thatcritical mass
together internationally.
And maybe also regionally, I think is
super important.
And one more thing thatI want to touch upon
is thatI think what we need to be honest
withis thatregional collaboration is not
only happening,as you said
on a technical level
but what it needs is strong andlong
trustful relationship between participating
governments andinstitutions because
it takes time to build institutional
structures,data structures forsharing,etc.
And soI think we just need to be honest
withus andthe countries thatwe work with
that we will be hopping on a long lasting
journey together because
I think you said it earlier,when we build
quick,that's nice becauseit's quick
but it might not be future proof.
So,yeah,let's not miss
thatopportunity,even if it means that
we're on a long journey together.
Thank you, Noah.
I said I'm going to come to you and then,
or is there.
So,I said you,you know,you're a search
leader,you work with
innovation hubs on the implementation.
I want to ask,how can policymakers better
leverage the local technical ecosystems
no one has mentioned that
some of the sort of key ways to address
these challenges is to have solutions that
are locally relevant
developed locally that solve local and
regional problems.
So,how can policymakers,you know
leverage the local technical ecosystem to
solve some of these challenges because
of course,sometimes importing solutions
come withtheir own challenges.
They're not always developed for sort of
the African concept of the local context.
So, that's my first question here and then
I'll come to you.
Thanks, Toby.
I think thatwe,I mean,this is an
important,it's not even how should,I mean
how can they should leverage it.
We have talked aboutdigital sovereignty
from,I mean,a couple of days,I mean
for the couple of days thatwe are here,and
forthat to be a reality
you need to really rely on your local
capacity.
So, this is a must. I do believe that
policymakers, they should, then, but how.
So,I think thatfrom my own experience,this
should be enabled fromthe top
the policy level.
So,you have examples of countries where,for
example,there is incentive whenyou work
withlocal companies.
And that's something that we should be
implementing in the continent.
So, we should enable this and empower this
at the policy level first.
Then training,we will talk aboutit,I
mean,again andagain,but training is very
very important.
We should enable training.
We should make sure thatwe do have centers
of excellence in DPI and
technology in general in the continent,so
thatthe young people can build solutions
forthe problems thatwe are facing in the
continent.
And another one that I've seen, we really,
really need to address this trust.
One unfortunate,I mean,phenomenon that
we have in the continent is lack of trust
in our local capacity,in our local people
the universities,the private sectors.
Usually,we tend to reach out,and it's very
funny because
most of the time what we do is thatwe
reach out to companies or stakeholders that
are outside the continent,but they end up
coming back and
actually contracting the people in the
country WHOat the end are the ones that
are doing the job.
So, which say that we could just first
directly go to them.
So, I think that the trust is important.
Training is important,but also enabling
all this from
the top actually at the policy level is
important,but we have no choice.
We need to be relying on the local
capacity if we do want digital sovereignty.
Thank you, Assan. I'm just going to pick
up from this.
I know the World Bank andsupport it
numerous projects across Africa
and DPI needs sustained long-term
investment.
Assan just mentioned thatit's really
important that
we have local capacity development to
support DPI in the long-term.
So, what are some of the key lessons
you've had from the World Bank Group?
We have the sort of opportunities you see
to ensure thatwhen,you know
when multilateral support or development
support like yourselves
going to the country that
you are able to support the local
ecosystem to build DPI implementation
and ensure that, you know, that they're
long-lasting in the country.
So, when it comes to sustainability of
DPIs, we look at it from three lens.
One is initial investment.
Second, what we talk a lot about is
maintenance and support.
But one key area thatwe often don't put a
lot of limelight on is not so
much the scaling of the first piece thatwe
built
but the growth of the initial DPI.
So, we do one-time investment.
We put a little bit of money aside
frommaintenance,but we don't think about
growing that.
We think about scaling it, and that's just
a mindset that we have.
In terms of financing,if you look at other
infrastructure investments thatbanks do
andgovernments do
if you look at civil works or road
construction,which is,in a way,a public good
you spend on maintenance
you spend on support, and you spend on
growth.
So,when World Bank is looking at going
forward
our mechanisms are now looking at full
life cycle of maintenance
support, and growing the asset itself.
Digital, of course, brings another dimension,
which is the infrastructure that you put
in place is for something.
And for that something also changes.
So, you put in a DPI to do something.
Let's say fintech to do a payment,but
tomorrow that
infrastructure now needs to be enhanced
exponentially to do something else.
And that piece of financing, then instead
of going back and starting new,
we need to figure out how to do it in a
more sustainable manner.
The initial piece is generally done
through grant funding in most of the cases.
The larger, large-scale operations are
financed through either loans or equity,
or even bonds, structured finance in terms
of blended finance, impact bonds.
So, there are various mechanisms that are
proven in infrastructure financing.
And now we're connecting the dots between
what has been proven over maybe a century
of investment in infrastructure
and how that can support DPI.
One aspect,actually,although that
I think it is important is being able to
evolve the solutions.
Technology is moving, and it will change
tomorrow.
If we don't have in the continent the
people WHOcan evolve this,WHO can plan for
tomorrow
so today we might be doing something, but
tomorrow we'll also go out and ask for help.
So,I think thatas part of the financing,I
would love to see support for
being able to evolve.
And that's research.
I'm sorry,I'm a researcher,but I think
thatit's very important that
we are forward thinking
when it comes to technology,and thatwe
have people in the continent WHO
can be thinking forward
so that we start now building the
solutions that we need tomorrow.
Thank you, Hassan.
Thank you, Azir.
I agree with you, because when we think
about sustainability,
I think sometimes we think the basis of
the question
sometimes we think only finance
but even more than finance is the ability
of the expertise to evolve and
develop new solutions astechnology
changes.
And if we invest, parallely, in infrastructure,
but also in the people and the capacity,
then we can have thatsort of sustainability
thatgoes beyond the infrastructure that
has been implemented
to the solutions andthe technology that
develops on top of the initial
infrastructure investment.
I'm going to pivot a little bit here to
Jane,and I want to talk about
one of the key points thatwas raised
in terms of a challenge for DPI, which is
on digital inclusion.
We've all mentioned it a little bit here.
We mentioned trust is needed for
interoperability.
We mentioned trust is needed for adoption.
Even trust is needed in the local capacity
to develop and implement DPI.
So what are some of the risks you think
African policymakers should be most
attentive to in DPIs?
And how should they try to build some of
this trust, not just in the solution,
but in the capacity to develop this
solution,in the capacity to work with
sort of neighboring countries
to develop interoperability solutions for
DPI.
So trust on sort of three different
aspects.
What should policymakers be considering to
solve this challenge?
Thank you so much for that question.
And it's a question that we spend some
time trying also to just unpack.
And in a report thatwe did DPI,a practical
approach forAfrica,we took this from
a very just basic understanding.
We started ask ourselves first
how many people understand or how many
policymakers understand what DPI is?
If you ask five policymakers, I bet you
will get five different answers.
So I think first andforemost,the whole
notion of DPI needs to have a very basic and
one harmonic understanding
of what exactly you mean by it.
And I think whenwe are talking aboutdigital
transformation andDPI is a tool for
digital transformation
yet we are still not in that granular area
where we understand what DPI is.
We do have the three foundational pillars
of digital idea,the financial payments and
also digital exchange.
But whenalso you go to a bit further on
this andyou start looking at how countries
andpolicymakers have unpacked this
it's also various. And countries have been
doing this for quite a while.
So digital idea already has historical
issues. We've discussed that about trust.
What you've just said,a lot of citizens do
not trust the system when
it comes to how digital ideas have been
done.
So whenwe talk aboutchallenges fast
I think we first have to come to a basic
understanding of what DPI exactly is
and what it's trying to do for the people.
So it has to be very human centric.
And I see thatas quite right now asa key
challenge because
when we started doing this research
first we started seeing that
DPI was almost like an important -- it was
being exported intothe continent.
It was not the one -- most of the African
countries were not part of the very
foundation of discussing or developing
this.
So I think whenyou have thatkind of
approach,it comes withits own dangers asmuch as
it's been done in goodwill
but then you have to understand then how
is this going to be rolled out.
So understanding this and putting in the
safeguards is very critical.
And how do we do this?
First, I think policy makers, in this paper
we say that we do need what Hassan said.
We do need national frameworks.
I was glad to hear the Nigerian minister
talk about this.
The Nigeria has now developed their own
foundational DPI
because then it brings all these different
issues, or DPI, into one national agenda.
And as that issue that we found are very
confounding. DPI is about digital.
But whenyou look at the African continent
how many people today are connected in
Africa?
About 40% are using the internet.
So some of these issues also have to play
aspect into it.
And other issues of energy. DPI is
digital. It runs on energy.
So trying to have this big framework
thatensures that
all the interlocking areas of DPI
those in the three pillars and others are
critically examined is very important.
Last butnot least,I also want to mention
thatwhen we talk about
Africa is the young people.
If we want,and if it's a digital
transformation,we want solutions that
are then being owned holistically
by Africans so they can grow and scale
them.
So how many young people today have been
included
and involved within the DPI frameworks?
How many young people are the ones WHO are
running these innovations?
developing the innovations for DPI?
How many young people know what DPI is?
Let's just start there.
So I think these are the things that we try
and bring out in a policy approach for DPI.
Let us remember it's aboutthe people,it's
aboutthe impact
and then policy makers have to go there.
So it's technology is great.
And with always being a technology, maybe
next year will be something else.
I don't know. And now there's identity, we
should be thinking about.
But at the end of the day, let's make sure
that whatever transformation is coming,
it's about the people and how the people
can be transformed in the coming years.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Jane.
I think, no, excellent points.
I'm actually going to stay with you.
So you've mentioned about thinking about
DPI for Africa, right?
What can DPI do for Africa?
We don't want to import an idea that
solves a problem for somebody else.
So we have DPI now. We're implementing
ID's foundation, data exchange, right?
Can you touch a little bit on what you
think are the biggest opportunities for
DPI in Africa?
For example, for digital economy. So we
spoke a little bit about the challenges.
We spoke a little bit about trust, about
long-term investment.
Well, can we talk a little bit about what
is possible?
What is the potential for DPI?
If we do it right, we want to build trust,
we want to have local capacity.
But whenit's done right,what are those
incredible opportunities on the continent for
DPI
starting with the digital economy?
Thank you for taking that point, Father.
I think it's very important also to note
that DPI does have
transformational capacities.
And I think, for me, again, I'll go back
to the young people.
And how are the young people economically
engaged? Do they have jobs?
Unfortunately, most African young people
do not have jobs.
They are looking for jobs.
So I think,for me,the output thatwe hope
to see that
DPI or any digital transformation
initiative can do is empower young people
to first get socioeconomic gains.
What do I mean by that? When you look at
most of the young people also,
is there a lot of middle-small
enterprises?
About 80% of Africans are involved in
small businesses.
So when you -- I'm from Kenya where we
call them Juanjico or Mamamboga,
the local person WHOsells you your
vegetables,how can you ensure that
a person is able to scale
get access to finances?
How can they also ensure that they're able
to get their produce?
So can you get them digitized first or put
them on the system andensure that
they first can get accessibility to other
services?
Because what we've had about the success
cases, especially in the end at heart,
is how many people are able to come on top
onto the financial system.
So they are also able to get savings. They
are able to get credit.
For most young people and WHO are trying
to get credit, nobody will give it to them.
They are too risky.
They don't have history.
So ensuring that young people can be
empowered
to ensure that
they come to these systems whereby they
are able to scale their business.
Secondly, how can they also scale across
borders?
Africa is about over one billion people
and we integrate it.
There is an AFCFTA right now.
If it's easier fora person WHOis in
Chad,Cameroon,Burundi
any country in the continent
to sell their products across the
continent, I think that would be great.
But that means we need also the common
rails.
We need data systems that are speaking to
each other.
We need financial systems that are
speaking to each other.
I have traveled in some African countries
andunfortunately assoon as
I cross the border
I can't send money. My phone goes off or
I'm charged exorbitant costs for that.
Another thing that I want to say even to
African countries,
why do we still need visas to cross the
borders?
I think these are some of the things that
may not be DPI,
but they are governance issues that are
changing the ecosystem.
So I think if technology can help us drive
some of these other issues
that are really inhibiting the ecosystem,
it would be really crucial
and it would be really empowering young
people in the continent.
Thank you. Thank you so much, Jane. I
agree.
DPI can't be an ID and that's an
opportunity as well
in terms of cross-border movement of
people,
cross-border movement of goods and
services.
This drives the digital economy.
And so I'm going to come to you because of
the youth question and innovation.
So how can the local ecosystems that
you've spoken about
and your innovation hubs, how can we
support the realization of these benefits?
So we want to have access to, we know DPI
can give us access to these markets, right?
We want to be able to build these
solutions that are enabled,
some of these challenges that Jane has
highlighted.
We want to realize these benefits.
How is your innovation hub? What are the
ideas that you have about
ensuring that the youth demographic can
take advantage of these opportunities?
To realize these benefits of DPI.
Thanks. That's a great question.
And this is our bread and butter actually.
What we try to do every day, how to make
sure that the young generations
that we have in the continent can really
leverage these technologies.
So let me come back to the examples that I
gave at the beginning
when we were running this digital ID
hackathon.
What we asked to the young people in the
continent was
assume that in your country there is a
digital ID
and you were asking do they know even what
digital ID is.
So we start by training them on what a
digital ID is
and technically also train them on how to
use it.
And we ask them the question, if this was
in your country,
what problems could you solve?
And they start thinking about it. So they
come with problems.
And it was interesting, we did it across
the continent east, west, north, and south.
And you see the different use cases from
the different regions.
So every solution was tackling a very
specific problem
in the country where the student came
from.
And then we helped them now to implement
this.
So what we ended up having was a pool of
solutions
that were proposed by local people to
solve local problems.
And if we leverage that now, because what
we have been telling them
is that also act local, but think global,
so that a solution that was developed by
students in Togo
can serve actually later in a problem or
similar problem in Kenya.
So this is what we need to be doing in the
continent.
So that not every country will be having
all the solutions,
but if we put things together,
we can actually address most of the
problems that we have in the continent.
So I do believe, again, that these young
generations are the ones,
the youth actually are the ones WHO will
be building these solutions,
but we need to train them, we need to
empower them,
we need to enable them so that they can do
it.
And I think that with the digital ID
Hakata,
there was just one example.
We are starting to see that, and I know
that there are other initiatives
actually to do similar works on DPI in
general.
And I think that with that,
we are really heading to the right
direction,
enabling these young people to participate
now into making this dream a reality.
Thank you, Assan.
No, I want to come to you on sort of the
cross-border highlights that we've just said.
We know, as Jane has mentioned, Assan has
mentioned,
a solution in Togo, we want this to be
globally applicable, right?
And that's access to market.
So digital economy, it enables startups to
be able to grow,
to be able to scale, and this drives, of
course, innovation,
drives economic development.
But I want to come to you on what we need
to enable some of this.
So with your work on sort of the focus on
inter-able DPI, regional cooperation,
what are the enablers that you see to the
realization of some of these benefits
we've just spoken about, and these
opportunities?
Yeah, thanks.
And I want to specifically talk aboutthe
cross-border and
regional cooperation opportunities
because we see a lot of them currently.
And one aspect that's kind of the basic
ground work on the technical side,
but I still want to mention it because it's
so important because we don't see it yet,
but I think thatit's really that
we have a real chance to harmonize
technical standards
and APIs across regions becauseit makes it
so
much easier to have cross-border services
like digital IDs forvisas or payments to
unlock financial inclusion and
data exchange.
And for example, we're currently
collaborating with Smart Africa
WHO are in the process of designing joint
data exchange guidelines
for members of the Smart Africa Trust
Alliance, and exploring what can we take
from global standards, what can we learn
from other countries,
but how can we make it a solution that is
an African solution
that we have developed here based on the
needs in the culture and
the data sharing cultures
that we have in the countries that we work
with?
So I think that is a great step taking
currently, taking place currently.
Another enabler is pooling of resources to
have joint investments in infrastructure,
but I don't only mean financial resources,
but also things like joint data centers
to talking about energy as you did Jane,
or sandboxes to jointly test solutions
and have the same environment to explore
how solutions would look like.
And yeah, from testing together, I want to
come to learning together,
we've talked about capacity development,
but I'm not tired of mentioning it again
because I think joint capacity development
is another great, really important step.
And not only across border, across
learning experiences for governments,
but also bringing in regulators andprivate
sector into
that to really build regional networks
global networks, and have these forums
where governments can share their solutions,
their challenges, and build communities of
learning for that.
And I want to mention one example that we
have recently implemented together
with the World Bank and the DPI Safeguards
Initiative by audit,
and end-guff stack,which is the women
andguff tech challenge
where we supported 150 women
from more than 50 countries to learn about
DPI technical standards, the safeguards,
and really work on use cases in their
countries.
Also here, most of them were from
countries on the African continent,
and many of them are young people in the
early career stages.
And it's amazing to see these women now
bringing all of those learnings back to
their countries
but also still having that global or
regional network
because they've been working in small
groups together on use cases.
So I'm very passionate about that. Maybe
we should talk about the hackathon
and blending something together here, so
that's exciting.
So we see numerous opportunities to unlock
cross-border and regional cooperation
in many ways to build on them.
Thank you so much, Nora. And you mentioned
the women and guff tech challenge,
and I'm going to come to you with this
question.
So that's another way of supporting the
ecosystem.
That's a way of ensuring such DPI, that
sort of local capacity building.
Again, when we think of sustainability and
sort of supporting and finance,
maybe sometimes you always think of just,
you know, maybe cash,
but that's one big way that World Bank is
a partner in capacity building.
I said, what are some of the other ways,
right,
that we can, that show promise, you know,
in your work,
to moving beyond,you know,DPI pilots and
just keeping this sort of sustained
ecosystem wide
you know, technology providers, the women
and guff tech,
to sustain this sort of capacity building
for innovation to enable DPI.
To support innovation, frameworks around
financing become very critical.
Countries that have good financing
capital, access to capital for startups,
and then support from not just the lending
side,
but the equity lending needs to be more
systemized within the local practices
of how the benefits of the startups are
realized locally.
One of the things that we support more and
more nowadays is local innovation,
and then local frameworks for financing,
especially equity investments for startups.
In many of these countries, when you have
a startup, when you have new ideas,
the reward equation is not with the
company that started it.
It ends up more with other actors in the
industries.
These are practices established whereeconomies
are not advanced in terms of tech and
innovation ecosystem.
So that piece becomes very critical for us
to support not just the investments
and supporting programs such as hackathons
and sandboxes, so on and so forth,
but actual incentives for people to move
forward in the industry.
Thank you, Jose.
My colleague is letting me know thatour
time is up
so I'm just going to give us a very second
final question.
So we have some challenges, you know, the
constraints that we have,
some challenges withinclusion,some
challenges regularly,pluralism
but we've also seen sort of,like I
said,the youth opportunity.
We have the diversity, we could have a
huge access to a regional market.
What areas, to realize the benefits beyond
the challenges that we've mentioned,
if you highlight,you can pick whichone of
these areas I want to talk about
and you can say something else.
So policy andregulation,capacity
building,funding andsustainability
technology standards andcommunity
engagement.
So what areas do you think requires the
most support to realize the benefits of DPI
in Africa?
And you can pick any other one that isn't
in this group.
Asan, I'm going to go with you first.
You know what I'm going to say.
I do believe in that.
I mean, capacity, if there is no capacity,
nothing is happening.
So we need capacity. Thank you, Asan,
Azir.
I will pick two, absolutely capacity
building, but also community engagement.
Thank you. I think there's also a tie, so
also pick two.
I pick policy regulations, but more from a
governance perspective.
And then community engagement, because
technology has to be about the people.
Yeah, that was hard to pick, but I'm also
going to pick community engagement.
Because I think there's so many
communities that we need to involve.
The developer community is a local
development community, civil society.
And yeah, just citizens to get involved in
criticizing services,
how they're set up in government supporting
that and not like pushing that down.
So, yeah. There's a lot more to say about
community, but I don't know.
Please, thank you to all our panelists.
Thank you for your contributions.
Thank you so much. [APPLAUSE]
Thank you very much, Toby.
And you were not wrong.
Definitely one of the most exciting
conversations that took place here,
and everybody here in the room also knows
what they can do in order to let us know
what they found most exciting.
So here goes my last encouragement to make
use of the feedback forms that
we're providing.
I'm sure we'll also put them online so you
can do it in the upcoming days as well.
And before we wrap up the UN organized
program,just a quick show of hands that
I promise
it's the last time that I make you raise
your hands.
Who's going to the side events tomorrow at
PwC?
Okay,that's pretty much everyone,so you'll
know WHO
we'll be spending your Friday with.
And without further ado, we are welcoming
our CIO and CTO Assistant Secretary-General,
Bernardo Mariano Jr., for closing remarks
of this amazing week.
[APPLAUSE] Thank you.
After an amazing week, I still remember
the first time we had this in 2023,
and we're very few of us.
And the community grew exponentially.
And I hope that growth came with
excitement.
Did it? All right, okay, I thought the
silence meant something different.
So I'm really,really grateful to,first of
all,I mean
for you taking time out of your days
your busy schedule to be here.
I want to, in advance, thank Omar and the
team behind all these that made this possible
and continues to do impossible to do.
My good old friend, I'm Andeep.
We started a long time ago in Geneva.
Before the pandemic, and now we're in New
York, continue to do things.
So I'm Andeep, from the Tech Involved
Digital and Emerging Technology Office.
I think, I mean, great.
Thank you for the partnership, for the
collaboration, and all the other partners
that really,behind the scene
making this event possible in using United
Nation platform
to advance the open source,to bring the
positive impact,the accelerator for
the global digital
compact, but also accelerator for the
sustainable development goals to this world
by using the power open source technology
to power the development of the world.
We are here to not just find solution.
You are here not just to learn from each
other, to understand what's happening,
but you are here to be a driving force.
This exponential growth means a driving
force to bring results, to bring solutions,
to help the problem solve the world
solving the many problems we have.
It's been a busy period in the world with
lots of events, with lots of challenges.
And let me tell you thatone thing thatis
very common
and it's an everyday life in the United
Nations
is sitting in the middle andhaving one
group thinking one way and
the other group thinking
totally the opposite way.
And thatmeans thatthe open source is in
the middle of those WHOhave andthose WHO
have not
on the digital transformation and
leveraging digital technology.
And our role here is to make sure that we
not just bring those WHO don't have,
but we also help those WHOhave to continue
to advance whilewe try to make sure that
that
advancement benefits everyone, everywhere.
You might ask, what have you been doing
since last time we met?
What the United Nations have been doing?
So we launched the open source policy
framework to guide UN agencies to effectively
adopt the open source software.
We launched the UN open source principles
which is now being endorsed by 80
organizations,including the government of France.
So we also did launch the UN open source
catalog
a collection of internal developed open
source tools.
So all to say thatwithin these three
things thatI mentioned
the open source policy framework,the open
source principles and
the open source catalog
these were done thanks to a community of
practice of open source in the United
Nations
thatpart of the digital technology network
thatbehind the scene works to make sure
thatwe walk the talk.
What we preach here,what we talk abouthere
in the United Nations,we also implement
we do the part thatwe need to do.
I mentioned in the last year's event
thatbeing in this room is special
being in the United Nations is special
because we bring in this place whereissues
of humanitarian
socio-economic development,world security
and
all the rest are discussed to then say
what can we do and
how can we use open source to accelerate
open source to make sure thatthe race
of AI,the use of the monetization of data
does not divide asmore
but bring us together.
So I want to thank you fromthe bottom of
my heart
because the United Nations came in 2023
whenwe organized the first gathering.
We organized this gathering using the
convening power of the United Nations
but we found a community thatis being very
excited fromthe get-go.
I've never seen a community thatis more
excited than the open source
that the belief on what they do,that they
do withpassion,they spend hours andhours
it's not aboutremuneration
it's aboutthe belief thatopen source is
foreveryone,it should be open to everyone
andeveryone should benefit,so thank you
very much forthat.
And I hope withthis 5 cents of
contribution fromthe United Nations
because you've been in this journey
forvery long,I hope that
we are helping to take this community to
the next level.
And I hope thatwith thatnext level means
seeing results
looking at very concrete performance
indicators
seeing thatsolutions based on open source
are not neglected,and seeing thatcountries
andgovernments are leveraging in these
tools andopen source solutions to fast track
andaccelerate the development.
So thank you,thank you everyone,thank you
very much
and I hope you had an excellent time in
the past days
but also I hope tomorrow is going to be
even excited.
So if we think we have an event,even a
cocktail right now,so the day is not over
but I just wanted to say thank you forthe
bottom of my heart
for bringing your energy,for bringing your
commitment
for bringing your enthusiasm to United
Nations to make sure thatwe,when we go home
we say yes,it was great to do it,yes,we
contributed withour 5 cents to it.
But you are the driving force,so please
continue to be that
and to do good to humanity.
Thank you very much.
Thank you,thank you very much,Bernardo,thank
you forthe partnership that
made this happen.
I think the last thing you want to hear
now is the speech.
So I keep it very,very short,the storm has
died down,and so
the evening plans are safe,and you can
enjoy a little bit of New York.
So it's been an amazing week,and thank you
all formaking it amazing
for coming here again this year,making it
the biggest OSPO event sofar.
Thank you foryour commitment,thank you
forthe co-creation,the effort thathas gone
intoeach of the panels in terms of
generating ideas forour future work
for the next iteration,but also,as I
mentioned in the morning
the DPI summit in November,that is
very,very valuable.
The takeover was a new experience for us,
and it turned out to be amazing.
Thank you to everyone WHOtook
part,contributed those solutions
thank you to the mentors.
Thank you to our co-host today,the
governments of the Dominican Republic and
of Nigeria,the ministers shared very
compelling visions this morning
and the president of the Patrick J.
McGovern Foundation brought an essential
element of people-centric
human-centric ethical approaches to our
work
and the north star of the Global Digital
Compact has been guiding us throughout the
week
so stay engaged withthat,stay connected
give us your feedback,your honest
feedback,so I'm pitching forMoritz here
when he reminded you to give us some
feedback.
Last year's feedback was valuable in
carrying out some improvements this year
and I'm sure we can do better.
So thank you, and see you next year.